All right, guys.
So in this video, we're going to look at links and images.
And what I've done here is I've put the bra, I've made the browser smaller so that I could fit it on
the same screen as as the editor so that we can see what's going on at the same time because we have
auto reload with live server and I won't do this for every video, just the ones that where we don't
need a lot of real estate in the browser window here.
So let's go ahead and create a new file.
I'm going to call this zero five, underscore links, underscore images, HTML.
All right.
And I'm just going to close this up to give us some more room and we're going to generate a boilerplate.
And when I say boilerplate, it just means, you know, our our starter template, whatever, our structure.
So the title I'm going to say links and images.
And let's go ahead and let's first start with an external link.
So if you want to link to another website, you can do that.
So I'm going to put a paragraph in between all these links.
Actually, you know what?
I won't do that because I want to show you something.
So a link is is represented with an A tag.
So I'm going to say a tab or a enter and notice that with V's code it gives us this a ref attribute
right away.
And that's because every link needs an RF attribute, because that's the location that you're linking
to.
So in this case, let's link to HTTP, Google dot com.
And inside here is what we want to put whatever we want to click to link like some text or an image
or whatever.
That's what we want to put in here.
So let's, let's just say click for Google and we'll save this.
I'm just going to add a comment here.
We'll say external link and let's go ahead and save and run with live server.
So we have this link here that says Click for Google.
By default, it's going to be colored differently.
It's going to have an underline.
And if I click, it brings us to Google.
Now notice it opens in the same tab.
And when you link to an external site like this, usually you want to open it in a new tab because you
don't want to you don't want people to drift away from your website.
You're trying to show them something, but at the same time you want your website to stay open.
So what we would do is add a target attribute.
Now, I'm going to show you a little another little trick here, keyboard trick.
If you want to copy this whole line down, what you can do is hold shift option or shift alt on on windows
and then hit the down arrow.
And that will just copy that line for you.
And another tip if you want to.
You see how I'm just going back and forth here, one character at a time.
If you want to go by by word, you can hold down alt or actually on windows.
It's control I believe, but on a mac it's option.
And if you hit the the over arrow, notice how it goes across the whole word.
So to go from here to here, so you can go across much faster.
All right.
And if you want to go all the way to the beginning, you can hit the home key.
If you want to go all the way to the end of the line, you can hit the end key.
So it's very helpful to be able to navigate very quickly like that.
So again, like I was saying, if we want to open in a different tag, we can use the target attribute
and for a value we want to do underscore blank.
So we'll save that.
And what I wanted to show you is notice how this the next link here is not on a separate line.
The reason for that is on a tag is actually what's called an inline element.
So it doesn't knock it on to the next line.
Like if it were a paragraph, which is actually a block element.
And we're going to talk about inline and block elements, I think two videos from now, but I wanted
you to know that there are some inline elements and there are some block elements.
Now, if I want this on a new line, I could put a line break or I could just wrap them in a paragraph
tag.
And another tip is, if I want this moved up here, I can actually just hold either alt on windows or
option on a mac and I can just bring it up.
I can move this line wherever I want.
All right.
So we'll do that and let's put another paragraph tag and we'll bring that up into here.
So now if I save there on separate lines, because the paragraph is actually a block level element,
and if I click the second one, it opens up in a new tab because of the target attribute, because I
set it to blank.
All right.
So these are external links.
Usually your links are going to be internal because you're going to be linking to other pages in your
website, like, let's say in a boat page or a services or contact page, something like that.
So since we have these HTML files in the same folder, let's link to one of these.
So we'll link to the zero for typography.
So I'm going to close that back up.
Let's say internal link, put a paragraph and we'll put a an H in a tag with an H ref that points to
slash, meaning the current folder that we're in.
And then with V's code, notice that it actually shows us the HTML files that are in this folder.
The slash means the current folder we're in.
So I'm going to choose the topography HTML.
And in here, let's just say typography and we'll go ahead and save that.
And then if we click topography, it brings us to that page.
We don't have to put the whole like 127001 5500.
We don't have to put that in here because we're already in the same folder.
So we just need that slash.
All right.
And I'm just going to click the back button so we can link to any inner page that way.
So now let's take a look at images.
So this is our folder right here, HTML sandbox.
And I'm going to just create a new folder here called Images.
Usually you'll see this or they might it might be called IMG.
A lot of times you'll see that on in websites and applications.
But in this images folder, I'm just going to bring over a sample image which you should have in your
your your HTML sandbox in the project files.
And I'm going to bring this on to our Web page.
So I'll go down here and let's say local image and I'm saying local image because it's actually in our
folder, it's in it's in our file structure.
You can also link to remote images that are elsewhere, and I'll show you that in a second.
But let's go ahead and do an image tag, which is IMG and then.
If I do IMG Enter Tab, it's going to give me two attributes.
One is the source, which is the location of the image and the image name.
And then one is the basically the alternative text.
So for some reason the image doesn't show up.
If it's not there or something, this will be the text that's shown.
So for the alt I'll just say my image and then for the for the link here we want to go into the images
folder notice with VTS code.
If I do a forward slash brings down this dropdown and I can choose the images folder and it even shows
me what's in there.
The sample jpeg.
So I want that.
So the location and the image name itself.
So if I go ahead and save, there it is.
The image shows up now it goes out of view here because we have no CSS.
So it's just going to show the full size image.
But with CCIS, we can actually change actually we can change it with HTML as well.
If I wanted to, I could add a width here.
This isn't really something I'd recommend doing.
Usually you would use CSS, but you can set the width and height in HTML.
So if I set this to 200 and save now you can see that it's smaller and you can do height the height
as well.
But the height will auto adjust if you add a width.
So we can also do remote images.
So same way, IMG and all.
I'll just say my image too.
And for the source I could do any source I want.
Actually, there's a really good image sharing site if you go to source dot unsplash dot com and we
go down here, you can get random images from a specific user of the site.
What I want though is let's see, there's a fixed daily, weekly photo so you could grab any of these
URLs right here, random search term.
So if you want a random image like of nature and water, you can just grab this URL and put in nature
and water.
So let's do that.
So if we go back, if I save, it's going to give me an image that's 1600 pixels by 900 pixels of nature.
Water.
Let's make this smaller.
We'll say 200.
Okay.
So there we go.
And this only works because Unsplash.com allows us to do this.
They they basically allow us to specify the size in here.
This you can't do this with just any link, any image link.
Same thing with keywords here.
If I wanted like, let's say building.
And then we go, we get some kind of picture of a building.
I think it's yeah, it's random.
So if I click reload, it's just going to be a random building.
And again, this has nothing to do with HTML.
It's just the Unsplash service is an image sharing service or an image placeholder service that allows
us to do this.
So it's pretty cool if you're building something and you just need some, some kind of random image
and you don't want to have it local, you can just link to Unsplash like this.
All right.
So I think that's going to do it.
Guys, in the next video, we're going to start to look at lists and tables.